SiTe
Si: SiTe’s naturally use Si to catalogue experiences and information they deem important. In particular, they remember their impressions of experiences they’ve had. They have an organized internal world and their mind can easily put similar pieces of information into appropriate categories. They learn straightforward, practical systems, rules, and strategies with ease and grace and love when something is done right. Si gives the sense of the SiTe being grounded and having a linear, black and white way of thinking about things.
Te: Te is the primary way SiTe’s interact with the world around them. Te makes them loves efficiency and getting things done, and can enjoy a bit of healthy competition at times if they feel like they have a chance at winning. It is the SiTe’s primary decision-making process, which means that if a decision is needed in the moment, they tend to rely on what makes the most sense logically. They are more concerned about moving forward than they are about it being the perfect solution. Because Te is the primary external function, it is usually the first thing other people will notice about SiTe’s.
Fi: Fi is the SiTe’s third function. Fi is sensitive to the feelings of others and the atmosphere they’re in, and they use it to assess situations to see how things match up to their values and beliefs so they can act accordingly. They may think of their Fi as their gut instinct. It can act as a warning system when Te thinks a decision makes sense logically, but somewhere inside, Fi knows it’s a bad idea. Since Fi is internal, SiTe’s need more time to mull over the details of decisions that involve their beliefs or values. Because Fi is right after Te in order of preference, SiTe’s can be quite balanced between their action-oriented analytical side and the side of them that ponders their beliefs and values and the meaning behind things.
Ne: Ne is the SiTe’s last function. Ne is the small part of the SiTe that craves new experiences and ideas, but because it is their weakest function, it can only be used in simple ways or for short periods of time. For example, when coming up with an idea to execute a project, they can take a lot of details they’ve gathered from previous experience and put them together to form a really great concept, but coming up with an idea about a project when they have no relevant practical experience catalogued away can be very difficult. Ne can also fuel sudden “lightbulb” moments where an idea strikes them out of nowhere as they’re talking.
For more information, visit: https://www.typeinmind.com/site