FiSe
Fi: Although it’s referred to as “Feeling”, Fi is not internal emotions, but rather values that come from within. FiSe’s might experience a deep well of emotions, but this is not the root of Fi. It is a decision making-process that is very interested in determining its own moral code and what the FiSe’s gut instinct tells them is right, which is often based on how they would like to be treated themselves. They tend to be very considerate of others, and may take a long time to mull over their own beliefs to make sure they seem right. The values-refining process can take quite a bit of time and requires mental solitude. Fi generally puts authenticity in high esteem and is repulsed by anything that seems fabricated or shallow.
Se: Se is the main way FiSe’s take in information. It means they use their senses to understand the world around them. They live in the moment and prefer dealing with things that are real and solid over the purely hypothetical. Se is the part of FiSe’s that makes them search out playful new sensory experiences.
Ni: Ni is the FiSe’s third function, and it allows them to pull from every area in their brain to find valuable data, to look for patterns in the information they gather, or to skip ten steps ahead and predict what will happen in the future. Ni makes the Fi-led internal world very abstract and can involve lots of jumping around on intuitive leaps.
Te: Te is the FiSe’s inferior function. This function may be their achilles heel, and is inherently not as strong as their other functions because their highest priority and focus is on Fi. Te is a very logic-oriented way of problem solving. It is the side of them that naturally looks to find a better solution to a problem, improve the efficiency of a process, or critique and refine what is already in place. FiSe’s generally prefer only to use Te only when necessary, rather than to make all of their decisions. Overuse of an inferior function can be very draining, and may be unhealthy when constantly given priority over other functions.
For more information, visit: https://www.typeinmind.com/fise