NeTi
Ne: Ne is NeTi’s core function. They use it to find patterns and underlying principles, to see future possibilities, to construct theories and frameworks, and to form connections as they talk, write, or create. To others, Ne is what can make the NeTi seem like they have their head in the clouds, constantly having crazy ideas that don’t always seem in sync with reality. The rest of the functions below are said to "serve" the Ne. This means that the Ne way of doing things gets priority most of the time.
Ti: Ti is what fuels the NeTi’s drive for knowledge and general focus on intellectual pursuits. It comes second in the “functional stack”, and it operates mostly in the background, doing analysis on the ideas that Ne seems to grasp out of thin air. It provides a logical framework and reference material to determine which ideas are logical and which are not. This is important as it can help to bring balance in response to especially fantastical ideas.
Fe: Fe is third, and is where the NeTi’s humanitarian side originates. In social situations, it can make them a more expressive, eloquent, and otherwise skilled conversationalist, to the point where convincing others to believe in their ideas can be quite easy to do. It is also a major cause behind their drive to use their intelligence and creative problem solving skills to help others and make the world a better place, rather than using them for purely selfish purposes.
Si: Si is the NeTi’s last function. Because of this, it is inherently not as strong as the other functions. It operates subconsciously for the most part, and allows stores all the interesting facts and knowledge they gather in an organized way in their brain for future reference. People with Si first or second are really good at implementation and keeping a system running smoothly over long periods of time. Because Si is weakest for the NeTi, they may struggle with being consistent, reliable, and actually implementing their ideas. However, as they grow and develop, they often learn to overcome these weaknesses.
For more information, visit: https://www.typeinmind.com/neti